# NLP-practice-with-python
This repository contains the various graded assignments I have done as part of the Natural Language Processing Specialization offered by Deeplearning.ai in Coursera.
Also, it will include independent projects I will develop to practice and implement what I have learnt once I complete the 4-course specialization.
link to the course description: 
https://www.coursera.org/programs/170c0465-91b3-48d9-8e05-a22f76518f5d?collectionId=&productId=_U5cASTxEemuhAoKFebZeA&productType=s12n&showMiniModal=true
    First course of the specialization description (paragraph extracted from Coursera):
"In Course 1 of the Natural Language Processing Specialization, offered by deeplearning.ai, you will: a) Perform sentiment analysis of tweets using logistic regression and then naïve Bayes, b) Use vector space models to discover relationships between words and use PCA to reduce the dimensionality of the vector space and visualize those relationships, and c) Write a simple English to French translation algorithm using pre-computed word embeddings and locality sensitive hashing to relate words via approximate k-nearest neighbor search. Please make sure that you’re comfortable programming in Python and have a basic knowledge of machine learning, matrix multiplications, and conditional probability. By the end of this Specialization, you will have designed NLP applications that perform question-answering and sentiment analysis, created tools to translate languages and summarize text, and even built a chatbot! This Specialization is designed and taught by two experts in NLP, machine learning, and deep learning. Younes Bensouda Mourri is an Instructor of AI at Stanford University who also helped build the Deep Learning Specialization. Łukasz Kaiser is a Staff Research Scientist at Google Brain and the co-author of Tensorflow, the Tensor2Tensor and Trax libraries, and the Transformer paper."
    Second course description:
"In Course 2 of the Natural Language Processing Specialization, offered by deeplearning.ai, you will: a) Create a simple auto-correct algorithm using minimum edit distance and dynamic programming, b) Apply the Viterbi Algorithm for part-of-speech (POS) tagging, which is important for computational linguistics, c) Write a better auto-complete algorithm using an N-gram language model, and d) Write your own Word2Vec model that uses a neural network to compute word embeddings using a continuous bag-of-words model. Please make sure that you’re comfortable programming in Python and have a basic knowledge of machine learning, matrix multiplications, and conditional probability. By the end of this Specialization, you will have designed NLP applications that perform question-answering and sentiment analysis, created tools to translate languages and summarize text, and even built a chatbot! This Specialization is designed and taught by two experts in NLP, machine learning, and deep learning. Younes Bensouda Mourri is an Instructor of AI at Stanford University who also helped build the Deep Learning Specialization. Łukasz Kaiser is a Staff Research Scientist at Google Brain and the co-author of Tensorflow, the Tensor2Tensor and Trax libraries, and the Transformer paper."
    Third course description:
"In Course 3 of the Natural Language Processing Specialization, offered by deeplearning.ai, you will: a) Train a neural network with GLoVe word embeddings to perform sentiment analysis of tweets, b) Generate synthetic Shakespeare text using a Gated Recurrent Unit (GRU) language model, c) Train a recurrent neural network to perform named entity recognition (NER) using LSTMs with linear layers, and d) Use so-called ‘Siamese’ LSTM models to compare questions in a corpus and identify those that are worded differently but have the same meaning. Please make sure that you’ve completed Course 2 and are familiar with the basics of TensorFlow. If you’d like to prepare additionally, you can take Course 1: Neural Networks and Deep Learning of the Deep Learning Specialization. By the end of this Specialization, you will have designed NLP applications that perform question-answering and sentiment analysis, created tools to translate languages and summarize text, and even built a chatbot! This Specialization is designed and taught by two experts in NLP, machine learning, and deep learning. Younes Bensouda Mourri is an Instructor of AI at Stanford University who also helped build the Deep Learning Specialization. Łukasz Kaiser is a Staff Research Scientist at Google Brain and the co-author of Tensorflow, the Tensor2Tensor and Trax libraries, and the Transformer paper."
    Fourth course description:
"In Course 4 of the Natural Language Processing Specialization, offered by deeplearning.ai, you will: a) Translate complete English sentences into French using an encoder-decoder attention model, b) Build a Transformer model to summarize text, c) Use T5 and BERT models to perform question-answering, and d) Build a chatbot using a Reformer model. Please make sure that you’ve completed Course 3. By the end of this Specialization, you will have designed NLP applications that perform question-answering and sentiment analysis, created tools to translate languages and summarize text, and even built a chatbot! This Specialization is designed and taught by two experts in NLP, machine learning, and deep learning. Younes Bensouda Mourri is an Instructor of AI at Stanford University who also helped build the Deep Learning Specialization. Łukasz Kaiser is a Staff Research Scientist at Google Brain and the co-author of Tensorflow, the Tensor2Tensor and Trax libraries, and the Transformer paper."
